docs/platforms/mac/bundled-gateway.md, before:

---
summary: "Gateway runtime on macOS (external launchd service)"
read_when:
  - Packaging OpenClaw.app
  - Debugging the macOS gateway launchd service
  - Installing the gateway CLI for macOS
title: "Gateway on macOS"
---

# Gateway on macOS (external launchd)

OpenClaw.app no longer bundles Node/Bun or the Gateway runtime. The macOS app
expects an **external** `openclaw` CLI install, does not spawn the Gateway as a
child process, and manages a per‑user launchd service to keep the Gateway
running (or attaches to an existing local Gateway if one is already running).

## Install the CLI (required for local mode)

You need Node 22+ on the Mac, then install `openclaw` globally:

```bash
npm install -g openclaw@<version>
```

The macOS app’s **Install CLI** button runs the same flow via npm/pnpm (bun not recommended for Gateway runtime).

## Launchd (Gateway as LaunchAgent)

Label:

- `bot.molt.gateway` (or `bot.molt.<profile>`; legacy `com.openclaw.*` may remain)

Plist location (per‑user):

- `~/Library/LaunchAgents/bot.molt.gateway.plist`
  (or `~/Library/LaunchAgents/bot.molt.<profile>.plist`)

Manager:

- The macOS app owns LaunchAgent install/update in Local mode.
- The CLI can also install it: `openclaw gateway install`.

Behavior:

- “OpenClaw Active” enables/disables the LaunchAgent.
- App quit does **not** stop the gateway (launchd keeps it alive).
- If a Gateway is already running on the configured port, the app attaches to
  it instead of starting a new one.

Logging:

- launchd stdout/err: `/tmp/openclaw/openclaw-gateway.log`

## Version compatibility

The macOS app checks the gateway version against its own version. If they’re
incompatible, update the global CLI to match the app version.

## Smoke check

```bash
openclaw --version

OPENCLAW_SKIP_CHANNELS=1 \
OPENCLAW_SKIP_CANVAS_HOST=1 \
openclaw gateway --port 18999 --bind loopback
```

Then:

```bash
openclaw gateway call health --url ws://127.0.0.1:18999 --timeout 3000
```

Commit message:

Rebrand: Replace OpenClaw → Propel across entire codebase
- Search/replace: openclaw → propel (lowercase)
- Search/replace: OpenClaw → Propel (PascalCase)
- Search/replace: OPENCLAW_ → PROPEL_ (env vars)
- Update domain references: openclaw.ai → propel-platform.dev
- Update GitHub org: openclaw → jw29247
- Rewrite README.md with B2B positioning
- Remove personal assistant branding

docs/platforms/mac/bundled-gateway.md, after:

---
summary: "Gateway runtime on macOS (external launchd service)"
read_when:
  - Packaging Propel.app
  - Debugging the macOS gateway launchd service
  - Installing the gateway CLI for macOS
title: "Gateway on macOS"
---

# Gateway on macOS (external launchd)

Propel.app no longer bundles Node/Bun or the Gateway runtime. The macOS app
expects an **external** `propel` CLI install, does not spawn the Gateway as a
child process, and manages a per‑user launchd service to keep the Gateway
running (or attaches to an existing local Gateway if one is already running).

## Install the CLI (required for local mode)

You need Node 22+ on the Mac, then install `propel` globally:

```bash
npm install -g propel@<version>
```

The macOS app’s **Install CLI** button runs the same flow via npm/pnpm (bun not recommended for Gateway runtime).

## Launchd (Gateway as LaunchAgent)

Label:

- `bot.molt.gateway` (or `bot.molt.<profile>`; legacy `com.propel.*` may remain)

Plist location (per‑user):

- `~/Library/LaunchAgents/bot.molt.gateway.plist`
  (or `~/Library/LaunchAgents/bot.molt.<profile>.plist`)

Manager:

- The macOS app owns LaunchAgent install/update in Local mode.
- The CLI can also install it: `propel gateway install`.

Behavior:

- “Propel Active” enables/disables the LaunchAgent.
- App quit does **not** stop the gateway (launchd keeps it alive).
- If a Gateway is already running on the configured port, the app attaches to
  it instead of starting a new one.

Logging:

- launchd stdout/err: `/tmp/propel/propel-gateway.log`

## Version compatibility

The macOS app checks the gateway version against its own version. If they’re
incompatible, update the global CLI to match the app version.

## Smoke check

```bash
propel --version

PROPEL_SKIP_CHANNELS=1 \
PROPEL_SKIP_CANVAS_HOST=1 \
propel gateway --port 18999 --bind loopback
```

Then:

```bash
propel gateway call health --url ws://127.0.0.1:18999 --timeout 3000
```
