docs/platforms/mac/health.md, before:

---
summary: "How the macOS app reports gateway/Baileys health states"
read_when:
  - Debugging mac app health indicators
title: "Health Checks"
---

# Health Checks on macOS

How to see whether the linked channel is healthy from the menu bar app.

## Menu bar

- Status dot now reflects Baileys health:
  - Green: linked + socket opened recently.
  - Orange: connecting/retrying.
  - Red: logged out or probe failed.
- Secondary line reads "linked · auth 12m" or shows the failure reason.
- "Run Health Check" menu item triggers an on-demand probe.

## Settings

- General tab gains a Health card showing: linked auth age, session-store path/count, last check time, last error/status code, and buttons for Run Health Check / Reveal Logs.
- Uses a cached snapshot so the UI loads instantly and falls back gracefully when offline.
- **Channels tab** surfaces channel status + controls for WhatsApp/Telegram (login QR, logout, probe, last disconnect/error).

## How the probe works

- App runs `openclaw health --json` via `ShellExecutor` every ~60s and on demand. The probe loads creds and reports status without sending messages.
- Cache the last good snapshot and the last error separately to avoid flicker; show the timestamp of each.

## When in doubt

- You can still use the CLI flow in [Gateway health](/gateway/health) (`openclaw status`, `openclaw status --deep`, `openclaw health --json`) and tail `/tmp/openclaw/openclaw-*.log` for `web-heartbeat` / `web-reconnect`.

Commit message:

Rebrand: Replace OpenClaw → Propel across entire codebase
- Search/replace: openclaw → propel (lowercase)
- Search/replace: OpenClaw → Propel (PascalCase)
- Search/replace: OPENCLAW_ → PROPEL_ (env vars)
- Update domain references: openclaw.ai → propel-platform.dev
- Update GitHub org: openclaw → jw29247
- Rewrite README.md with B2B positioning
- Remove personal assistant branding

docs/platforms/mac/health.md, after:

---
summary: "How the macOS app reports gateway/Baileys health states"
read_when:
  - Debugging mac app health indicators
title: "Health Checks"
---

# Health Checks on macOS

How to see whether the linked channel is healthy from the menu bar app.

## Menu bar

- Status dot now reflects Baileys health:
  - Green: linked + socket opened recently.
  - Orange: connecting/retrying.
  - Red: logged out or probe failed.
- Secondary line reads "linked · auth 12m" or shows the failure reason.
- "Run Health Check" menu item triggers an on-demand probe.

## Settings

- General tab gains a Health card showing: linked auth age, session-store path/count, last check time, last error/status code, and buttons for Run Health Check / Reveal Logs.
- Uses a cached snapshot so the UI loads instantly and falls back gracefully when offline.
- **Channels tab** surfaces channel status + controls for WhatsApp/Telegram (login QR, logout, probe, last disconnect/error).

## How the probe works

- App runs `propel health --json` via `ShellExecutor` every ~60s and on demand. The probe loads creds and reports status without sending messages.
- Cache the last good snapshot and the last error separately to avoid flicker; show the timestamp of each.

## When in doubt

- You can still use the CLI flow in [Gateway health](/gateway/health) (`propel status`, `propel status --deep`, `propel health --json`) and tail `/tmp/propel/propel-*.log` for `web-heartbeat` / `web-reconnect`.
