docs/platforms/mac/peekaboo.md, before:

---
summary: "PeekabooBridge integration for macOS UI automation"
read_when:
  - Hosting PeekabooBridge in OpenClaw.app
  - Integrating Peekaboo via Swift Package Manager
  - Changing PeekabooBridge protocol/paths
title: "Peekaboo Bridge"
---

# Peekaboo Bridge (macOS UI automation)

OpenClaw can host **PeekabooBridge** as a local, permission‑aware UI automation
broker. This lets the `peekaboo` CLI drive UI automation while reusing the
macOS app’s TCC permissions.

## What this is (and isn’t)

- **Host**: OpenClaw.app can act as a PeekabooBridge host.
- **Client**: use the `peekaboo` CLI (no separate `openclaw ui ...` surface).
- **UI**: visual overlays stay in Peekaboo.app; OpenClaw is a thin broker host.

## Enable the bridge

In the macOS app:

- Settings → **Enable Peekaboo Bridge**

When enabled, OpenClaw starts a local UNIX socket server. If disabled, the host
is stopped and `peekaboo` will fall back to other available hosts.

## Client discovery order

Peekaboo clients typically try hosts in this order:

1. Peekaboo.app (full UX)
2. Claude.app (if installed)
3. OpenClaw.app (thin broker)

Use `peekaboo bridge status --verbose` to see which host is active and which
socket path is in use. You can override with:

```bash
export PEEKABOO_BRIDGE_SOCKET=/path/to/bridge.sock
```

## Security & permissions

- The bridge validates **caller code signatures**; an allowlist of TeamIDs is
  enforced (Peekaboo host TeamID + OpenClaw app TeamID).
- Requests time out after ~10 seconds.
- If required permissions are missing, the bridge returns a clear error message
  rather than launching System Settings.

## Snapshot behavior (automation)

Snapshots are stored in memory and expire automatically after a short window.
If you need longer retention, re‑capture from the client.

## Troubleshooting

- If `peekaboo` reports “bridge client is not authorized”, ensure the client is
  properly signed or run the host with `PEEKABOO_ALLOW_UNSIGNED_SOCKET_CLIENTS=1`
  in **debug** mode only.
- If no hosts are found, open one of the host apps (Peekaboo.app or OpenClaw.app)
  and confirm permissions are granted.

Commit message:

Rebrand: Replace OpenClaw → Propel across entire codebase
- Search/replace: openclaw → propel (lowercase)
- Search/replace: OpenClaw → Propel (PascalCase)
- Search/replace: OPENCLAW_ → PROPEL_ (env vars)
- Update domain references: openclaw.ai → propel-platform.dev
- Update GitHub org: openclaw → jw29247
- Rewrite README.md with B2B positioning
- Remove personal assistant branding

docs/platforms/mac/peekaboo.md, after:

---
summary: "PeekabooBridge integration for macOS UI automation"
read_when:
  - Hosting PeekabooBridge in Propel.app
  - Integrating Peekaboo via Swift Package Manager
  - Changing PeekabooBridge protocol/paths
title: "Peekaboo Bridge"
---

# Peekaboo Bridge (macOS UI automation)

Propel can host **PeekabooBridge** as a local, permission‑aware UI automation
broker. This lets the `peekaboo` CLI drive UI automation while reusing the
macOS app’s TCC permissions.

## What this is (and isn’t)

- **Host**: Propel.app can act as a PeekabooBridge host.
- **Client**: use the `peekaboo` CLI (no separate `propel ui ...` surface).
- **UI**: visual overlays stay in Peekaboo.app; Propel is a thin broker host.

## Enable the bridge

In the macOS app:

- Settings → **Enable Peekaboo Bridge**

When enabled, Propel starts a local UNIX socket server. If disabled, the host
is stopped and `peekaboo` will fall back to other available hosts.

## Client discovery order

Peekaboo clients typically try hosts in this order:

1. Peekaboo.app (full UX)
2. Claude.app (if installed)
3. Propel.app (thin broker)

Use `peekaboo bridge status --verbose` to see which host is active and which
socket path is in use. You can override with:

```bash
export PEEKABOO_BRIDGE_SOCKET=/path/to/bridge.sock
```

## Security & permissions

- The bridge validates **caller code signatures**; an allowlist of TeamIDs is
  enforced (Peekaboo host TeamID + Propel app TeamID).
- Requests time out after ~10 seconds.
- If required permissions are missing, the bridge returns a clear error message
  rather than launching System Settings.

## Snapshot behavior (automation)

Snapshots are stored in memory and expire automatically after a short window.
If you need longer retention, re‑capture from the client.

## Troubleshooting

- If `peekaboo` reports “bridge client is not authorized”, ensure the client is
  properly signed or run the host with `PEEKABOO_ALLOW_UNSIGNED_SOCKET_CLIENTS=1`
  in **debug** mode only.
- If no hosts are found, open one of the host apps (Peekaboo.app or Propel.app)
  and confirm permissions are granted.
