docs/concepts/models.md, before:

---
summary: "Models CLI: list, set, aliases, fallbacks, scan, status"
read_when:
  - Adding or modifying models CLI (models list/set/scan/aliases/fallbacks)
  - Changing model fallback behavior or selection UX
  - Updating model scan probes (tools/images)
title: "Models CLI"
---

# Models CLI

See [/concepts/model-failover](/concepts/model-failover) for auth profile
rotation, cooldowns, and how that interacts with fallbacks.
Quick provider overview + examples: [/concepts/model-providers](/concepts/model-providers).

## How model selection works

OpenClaw selects models in this order:

1. **Primary** model (`agents.defaults.model.primary` or `agents.defaults.model`).
2. **Fallbacks** in `agents.defaults.model.fallbacks` (in order).
3. **Provider auth failover** happens inside a provider before moving to the
   next model.

Related:

- `agents.defaults.models` is the allowlist/catalog of models OpenClaw can use (plus aliases).
- `agents.defaults.imageModel` is used **only when** the primary model can’t accept images.
- Per-agent defaults can override `agents.defaults.model` via `agents.list[].model` plus bindings (see [/concepts/multi-agent](/concepts/multi-agent)).

## Quick model picks (anecdotal)

- **GLM**: a bit better for coding/tool calling.
- **MiniMax**: better for writing and vibes.

## Setup wizard (recommended)

If you don’t want to hand-edit config, run the onboarding wizard:

```bash
openclaw onboard
```

It can set up model + auth for common providers, including **OpenAI Code (Codex)
subscription** (OAuth) and **Anthropic** (API key recommended; `claude
setup-token` also supported).

## Config keys (overview)

- `agents.defaults.model.primary` and `agents.defaults.model.fallbacks`
- `agents.defaults.imageModel.primary` and `agents.defaults.imageModel.fallbacks`
- `agents.defaults.models` (allowlist + aliases + provider params)
- `models.providers` (custom providers written into `models.json`)

Model refs are normalized to lowercase. Provider aliases like `z.ai/*` normalize
to `zai/*`.

Provider configuration examples (including OpenCode Zen) live in
[/gateway/configuration](/gateway/configuration#opencode-zen-multi-model-proxy).

## “Model is not allowed” (and why replies stop)

If `agents.defaults.models` is set, it becomes the **allowlist** for `/model` and for
session overrides. When a user selects a model that isn’t in that allowlist,
OpenClaw returns:

```
Model "provider/model" is not allowed. Use /model to list available models.
```

This happens **before** a normal reply is generated, so the message can feel
like it “didn’t respond.” The fix is to either:

- Add the model to `agents.defaults.models`, or
- Clear the allowlist (remove `agents.defaults.models`), or
- Pick a model from `/model list`.

Example allowlist config:

```json5
{
  agent: {
    model: { primary: "anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5" },
    models: {
      "anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5": { alias: "Sonnet" },
      "anthropic/claude-opus-4-6": { alias: "Opus" },
    },
  },
}
```

## Switching models in chat (`/model`)

You can switch models for the current session without restarting:

```
/model
/model list
/model 3
/model openai/gpt-5.2
/model status
```

Notes:

- `/model` (and `/model list`) is a compact, numbered picker (model family + available providers).
- On Discord, `/model` and `/models` open an interactive picker with provider and model dropdowns plus a Submit step.
- `/model <#>` selects from that picker.
- `/model status` is the detailed view (auth candidates and, when configured, provider endpoint `baseUrl` + `api` mode).
- Model refs are parsed by splitting on the **first** `/`. Use `provider/model` when typing `/model <ref>`.
- If the model ID itself contains `/` (OpenRouter-style), you must include the provider prefix (example: `/model openrouter/moonshotai/kimi-k2`).
- If you omit the provider, OpenClaw treats the input as an alias or a model for the **default provider** (only works when there is no `/` in the model ID).

Full command behavior/config: [Slash commands](/tools/slash-commands).

## CLI commands

```bash
openclaw models list
openclaw models status
openclaw models set <provider/model>
openclaw models set-image <provider/model>

openclaw models aliases list
openclaw models aliases add <alias> <provider/model>
openclaw models aliases remove <alias>

openclaw models fallbacks list
openclaw models fallbacks add <provider/model>
openclaw models fallbacks remove <provider/model>
openclaw models fallbacks clear

openclaw models image-fallbacks list
openclaw models image-fallbacks add <provider/model>
openclaw models image-fallbacks remove <provider/model>
openclaw models image-fallbacks clear
```

`openclaw models` (no subcommand) is a shortcut for `models status`.

### `models list`

Shows configured models by default. Useful flags:

- `--all`: full catalog
- `--local`: local providers only
- `--provider <name>`: filter by provider
- `--plain`: one model per line
- `--json`: machine‑readable output

### `models status`

Shows the resolved primary model, fallbacks, image model, and an auth overview
of configured providers. It also surfaces OAuth expiry status for profiles found
in the auth store (warns within 24h by default). `--plain` prints only the
resolved primary model.
OAuth status is always shown (and included in `--json` output). If a configured
provider has no credentials, `models status` prints a **Missing auth** section.
JSON includes `auth.oauth` (warn window + profiles) and `auth.providers`
(effective auth per provider).
Use `--check` for automation (exit `1` when missing/expired, `2` when expiring).

Preferred Anthropic auth is the Claude Code CLI setup-token (run anywhere; paste on the gateway host if needed):

```bash
claude setup-token
openclaw models status
```

## Scanning (OpenRouter free models)

`openclaw models scan` inspects OpenRouter’s **free model catalog** and can
optionally probe models for tool and image support.

Key flags:

- `--no-probe`: skip live probes (metadata only)
- `--min-params <b>`: minimum parameter size (billions)
- `--max-age-days <days>`: skip older models
- `--provider <name>`: provider prefix filter
- `--max-candidates <n>`: fallback list size
- `--set-default`: set `agents.defaults.model.primary` to the first selection
- `--set-image`: set `agents.defaults.imageModel.primary` to the first image selection

Probing requires an OpenRouter API key (from auth profiles or
`OPENROUTER_API_KEY`). Without a key, use `--no-probe` to list candidates only.

Scan results are ranked by:

1. Image support
2. Tool latency
3. Context size
4. Parameter count

Input

- OpenRouter `/models` list (filter `:free`)
- Requires OpenRouter API key from auth profiles or `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` (see [/environment](/help/environment))
- Optional filters: `--max-age-days`, `--min-params`, `--provider`, `--max-candidates`
- Probe controls: `--timeout`, `--concurrency`

When run in a TTY, you can select fallbacks interactively. In non‑interactive
mode, pass `--yes` to accept defaults.

## Models registry (`models.json`)

Custom providers in `models.providers` are written into `models.json` under the
agent directory (default `~/.openclaw/agents/<agentId>/models.json`). This file
is merged by default unless `models.mode` is set to `replace`.

Commit message:

Rebrand: Replace OpenClaw → Propel across entire codebase
- Search/replace: openclaw → propel (lowercase)
- Search/replace: OpenClaw → Propel (PascalCase)
- Search/replace: OPENCLAW_ → PROPEL_ (env vars)
- Update domain references: openclaw.ai → propel-platform.dev
- Update GitHub org: openclaw → jw29247
- Rewrite README.md with B2B positioning
- Remove personal assistant branding

docs/concepts/models.md, after:

---
summary: "Models CLI: list, set, aliases, fallbacks, scan, status"
read_when:
  - Adding or modifying models CLI (models list/set/scan/aliases/fallbacks)
  - Changing model fallback behavior or selection UX
  - Updating model scan probes (tools/images)
title: "Models CLI"
---

# Models CLI

See [/concepts/model-failover](/concepts/model-failover) for auth profile
rotation, cooldowns, and how that interacts with fallbacks.
Quick provider overview + examples: [/concepts/model-providers](/concepts/model-providers).

## How model selection works

Propel selects models in this order:

1. **Primary** model (`agents.defaults.model.primary` or `agents.defaults.model`).
2. **Fallbacks** in `agents.defaults.model.fallbacks` (in order).
3. **Provider auth failover** happens inside a provider before moving to the
   next model.

Related:

- `agents.defaults.models` is the allowlist/catalog of models Propel can use (plus aliases).
- `agents.defaults.imageModel` is used **only when** the primary model can’t accept images.
- Per-agent defaults can override `agents.defaults.model` via `agents.list[].model` plus bindings (see [/concepts/multi-agent](/concepts/multi-agent)).

## Quick model picks (anecdotal)

- **GLM**: a bit better for coding/tool calling.
- **MiniMax**: better for writing and vibes.

## Setup wizard (recommended)

If you don’t want to hand-edit config, run the onboarding wizard:

```bash
propel onboard
```

It can set up model + auth for common providers, including **OpenAI Code (Codex)
subscription** (OAuth) and **Anthropic** (API key recommended; `claude
setup-token` also supported).

## Config keys (overview)

- `agents.defaults.model.primary` and `agents.defaults.model.fallbacks`
- `agents.defaults.imageModel.primary` and `agents.defaults.imageModel.fallbacks`
- `agents.defaults.models` (allowlist + aliases + provider params)
- `models.providers` (custom providers written into `models.json`)

Model refs are normalized to lowercase. Provider aliases like `z.ai/*` normalize
to `zai/*`.

Provider configuration examples (including OpenCode Zen) live in
[/gateway/configuration](/gateway/configuration#opencode-zen-multi-model-proxy).

## “Model is not allowed” (and why replies stop)

If `agents.defaults.models` is set, it becomes the **allowlist** for `/model` and for
session overrides. When a user selects a model that isn’t in that allowlist,
Propel returns:

```
Model "provider/model" is not allowed. Use /model to list available models.
```

This happens **before** a normal reply is generated, so the message can feel
like it “didn’t respond.” The fix is to either:

- Add the model to `agents.defaults.models`, or
- Clear the allowlist (remove `agents.defaults.models`), or
- Pick a model from `/model list`.

Example allowlist config:

```json5
{
  agent: {
    model: { primary: "anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5" },
    models: {
      "anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5": { alias: "Sonnet" },
      "anthropic/claude-opus-4-6": { alias: "Opus" },
    },
  },
}
```

## Switching models in chat (`/model`)

You can switch models for the current session without restarting:

```
/model
/model list
/model 3
/model openai/gpt-5.2
/model status
```

Notes:

- `/model` (and `/model list`) is a compact, numbered picker (model family + available providers).
- On Discord, `/model` and `/models` open an interactive picker with provider and model dropdowns plus a Submit step.
- `/model <#>` selects from that picker.
- `/model status` is the detailed view (auth candidates and, when configured, provider endpoint `baseUrl` + `api` mode).
- Model refs are parsed by splitting on the **first** `/`. Use `provider/model` when typing `/model <ref>`.
- If the model ID itself contains `/` (OpenRouter-style), you must include the provider prefix (example: `/model openrouter/moonshotai/kimi-k2`).
- If you omit the provider, Propel treats the input as an alias or a model for the **default provider** (only works when there is no `/` in the model ID).

Full command behavior/config: [Slash commands](/tools/slash-commands).

## CLI commands

```bash
propel models list
propel models status
propel models set <provider/model>
propel models set-image <provider/model>

propel models aliases list
propel models aliases add <alias> <provider/model>
propel models aliases remove <alias>

propel models fallbacks list
propel models fallbacks add <provider/model>
propel models fallbacks remove <provider/model>
propel models fallbacks clear

propel models image-fallbacks list
propel models image-fallbacks add <provider/model>
propel models image-fallbacks remove <provider/model>
propel models image-fallbacks clear
```

`propel models` (no subcommand) is a shortcut for `models status`.

### `models list`

Shows configured models by default. Useful flags:

- `--all`: full catalog
- `--local`: local providers only
- `--provider <name>`: filter by provider
- `--plain`: one model per line
- `--json`: machine‑readable output

### `models status`

Shows the resolved primary model, fallbacks, image model, and an auth overview
of configured providers. It also surfaces OAuth expiry status for profiles found
in the auth store (warns within 24h by default). `--plain` prints only the
resolved primary model.
OAuth status is always shown (and included in `--json` output). If a configured
provider has no credentials, `models status` prints a **Missing auth** section.
JSON includes `auth.oauth` (warn window + profiles) and `auth.providers`
(effective auth per provider).
Use `--check` for automation (exit `1` when missing/expired, `2` when expiring).

Preferred Anthropic auth is the Claude Code CLI setup-token (run anywhere; paste on the gateway host if needed):

```bash
claude setup-token
propel models status
```

## Scanning (OpenRouter free models)

`propel models scan` inspects OpenRouter’s **free model catalog** and can
optionally probe models for tool and image support.

Key flags:

- `--no-probe`: skip live probes (metadata only)
- `--min-params <b>`: minimum parameter size (billions)
- `--max-age-days <days>`: skip older models
- `--provider <name>`: provider prefix filter
- `--max-candidates <n>`: fallback list size
- `--set-default`: set `agents.defaults.model.primary` to the first selection
- `--set-image`: set `agents.defaults.imageModel.primary` to the first image selection

Probing requires an OpenRouter API key (from auth profiles or
`OPENROUTER_API_KEY`). Without a key, use `--no-probe` to list candidates only.

Scan results are ranked by:

1. Image support
2. Tool latency
3. Context size
4. Parameter count

Input

- OpenRouter `/models` list (filter `:free`)
- Requires OpenRouter API key from auth profiles or `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` (see [/environment](/help/environment))
- Optional filters: `--max-age-days`, `--min-params`, `--provider`, `--max-candidates`
- Probe controls: `--timeout`, `--concurrency`

When run in a TTY, you can select fallbacks interactively. In non‑interactive
mode, pass `--yes` to accept defaults.

## Models registry (`models.json`)

Custom providers in `models.providers` are written into `models.json` under the
agent directory (default `~/.propel/agents/<agentId>/models.json`). This file
is merged by default unless `models.mode` is set to `replace`.
