SECURITY.md, before:

# Security Policy

If you believe you've found a security issue in OpenClaw, please report it privately.

## Reporting

Report vulnerabilities directly to the repository where the issue lives:

- **Core CLI and gateway** — [openclaw/openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw)
- **macOS desktop app** — [openclaw/openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw) (apps/macos)
- **iOS app** — [openclaw/openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw) (apps/ios)
- **Android app** — [openclaw/openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw) (apps/android)
- **ClawHub** — [openclaw/clawhub](https://github.com/openclaw/clawhub)
- **Trust and threat model** — [openclaw/trust](https://github.com/openclaw/trust)

For issues that don't fit a specific repo, or if you're unsure, email **security@openclaw.ai** and we'll route it.

For full reporting instructions see our [Trust page](https://trust.openclaw.ai).

### Required in Reports

1. **Title**
2. **Severity Assessment**
3. **Impact**
4. **Affected Component**
5. **Technical Reproduction**
6. **Demonstrated Impact**
7. **Environment**
8. **Remediation Advice**

Reports without reproduction steps, demonstrated impact, and remediation advice will be deprioritized. Given the volume of AI-generated scanner findings, we must ensure we're receiving vetted reports from researchers who understand the issues.

## Security & Trust

**Jamieson O'Reilly** ([@theonejvo](https://twitter.com/theonejvo)) is Security & Trust at OpenClaw. Jamieson is the founder of [Dvuln](https://dvuln.com) and brings extensive experience in offensive security, penetration testing, and security program development.

## Bug Bounties

OpenClaw is a labor of love. There is no bug bounty program and no budget for paid reports. Please still disclose responsibly so we can fix issues quickly.
The best way to help the project right now is by sending PRs.

## Maintainers: GHSA Updates via CLI

When patching a GHSA via `gh api`, include `X-GitHub-Api-Version: 2022-11-28` (or newer). Without it, some fields (notably CVSS) may not persist even if the request returns 200.

## Out of Scope

- Public Internet Exposure
- Using OpenClaw in ways that the docs recommend not to
- Deployments where mutually untrusted/adversarial operators share one gateway host and config
- Prompt injection attacks
- Reports that require write access to trusted local state (`~/.openclaw`, workspace files like `MEMORY.md` / `memory/*.md`)

## Deployment Assumptions

OpenClaw security guidance assumes:

- The host where OpenClaw runs is within a trusted OS/admin boundary.
- Anyone who can modify `~/.openclaw` state/config (including `openclaw.json`) is effectively a trusted operator.
- A single Gateway shared by mutually untrusted people is **not a recommended setup**. Use separate gateways (or at minimum separate OS users/hosts) per trust boundary.
- Authenticated Gateway callers are treated as trusted operators. Session identifiers (for example `sessionKey`) are routing controls, not per-user authorization boundaries.

## Workspace Memory Trust Boundary

`MEMORY.md` and `memory/*.md` are plain workspace files and are treated as trusted local operator state.

- If someone can edit workspace memory files, they already crossed the trusted operator boundary.
- Memory search indexing/recall over those files is expected behavior, not a sandbox/security boundary.
- Example report pattern considered out of scope: "attacker writes malicious content into `memory/*.md`, then `memory_search` returns it."
- If you need isolation between mutually untrusted users, split by OS user or host and run separate gateways.

## Plugin Trust Boundary

Plugins/extensions are loaded **in-process** with the Gateway and are treated as trusted code.

- Plugins can execute with the same OS privileges as the OpenClaw process.
- Runtime helpers (for example `runtime.system.runCommandWithTimeout`) are convenience APIs, not a sandbox boundary.
- Only install plugins you trust, and prefer `plugins.allow` to pin explicit trusted plugin ids.

## Operational Guidance

For threat model + hardening guidance (including `openclaw security audit --deep` and `--fix`), see:

- `https://docs.openclaw.ai/gateway/security`

### Tool filesystem hardening

- `tools.exec.applyPatch.workspaceOnly: true` (recommended): keeps `apply_patch` writes/deletes within the configured workspace directory.
- `tools.fs.workspaceOnly: true` (optional): restricts `read`/`write`/`edit`/`apply_patch` paths to the workspace directory.
- Avoid setting `tools.exec.applyPatch.workspaceOnly: false` unless you fully trust who can trigger tool execution.

### Web Interface Safety

OpenClaw's web interface (Gateway Control UI + HTTP endpoints) is intended for **local use only**.

- Recommended: keep the Gateway **loopback-only** (`127.0.0.1` / `::1`).
  - Config: `gateway.bind="loopback"` (default).
  - CLI: `openclaw gateway run --bind loopback`.
- `gateway.controlUi.dangerouslyDisableDeviceAuth` is intended for localhost-only break-glass use.
  - OpenClaw keeps deployment flexibility by design and does not hard-forbid non-local setups.
  - Non-local and other risky configurations are surfaced by `openclaw security audit` as dangerous findings.
  - This operator-selected tradeoff is by design and not, by itself, a security vulnerability.
- Canvas host note: network-visible canvas is **intentional** for trusted node scenarios (LAN/tailnet).
  - Expected setup: non-loopback bind + Gateway auth (token/password/trusted-proxy) + firewall/tailnet controls.
  - Expected routes: `/__openclaw__/canvas/`, `/__openclaw__/a2ui/`.
  - This deployment model alone is not a security vulnerability.
- Do **not** expose it to the public internet (no direct bind to `0.0.0.0`, no public reverse proxy). It is not hardened for public exposure.
- If you need remote access, prefer an SSH tunnel or Tailscale serve/funnel (so the Gateway still binds to loopback), plus strong Gateway auth.
- The Gateway HTTP surface includes the canvas host (`/__openclaw__/canvas/`, `/__openclaw__/a2ui/`). Treat canvas content as sensitive/untrusted and avoid exposing it beyond loopback unless you understand the risk.

## Runtime Requirements

### Node.js Version

OpenClaw requires **Node.js 22.12.0 or later** (LTS). This version includes important security patches:

- CVE-2025-59466: async_hooks DoS vulnerability
- CVE-2026-21636: Permission model bypass vulnerability

Verify your Node.js version:

```bash
node --version  # Should be v22.12.0 or later
```

### Docker Security

When running OpenClaw in Docker:

1. The official image runs as a non-root user (`node`) for reduced attack surface
2. Use `--read-only` flag when possible for additional filesystem protection
3. Limit container capabilities with `--cap-drop=ALL`

Example secure Docker run:

```bash
docker run --read-only --cap-drop=ALL \
  -v openclaw-data:/app/data \
  openclaw/openclaw:latest
```

## Security Scanning

This project uses `detect-secrets` for automated secret detection in CI/CD.
See `.detect-secrets.cfg` for configuration and `.secrets.baseline` for the baseline.

Run locally:

```bash
pip install detect-secrets==1.5.0
detect-secrets scan --baseline .secrets.baseline
```

Commit message:

Rebrand: Replace OpenClaw → Propel across entire codebase
- Search/replace: openclaw → propel (lowercase)
- Search/replace: OpenClaw → Propel (PascalCase)
- Search/replace: OPENCLAW_ → PROPEL_ (env vars)
- Update domain references: openclaw.ai → propel-platform.dev
- Update GitHub org: openclaw → jw29247
- Rewrite README.md with B2B positioning
- Remove personal assistant branding

SECURITY.md, after:

# Security Policy

If you believe you've found a security issue in Propel, please report it privately.

## Reporting

Report vulnerabilities directly to the repository where the issue lives:

- **Core CLI and gateway** — [propel/propel](https://github.com/jw29247/propel)
- **macOS desktop app** — [propel/propel](https://github.com/jw29247/propel) (apps/macos)
- **iOS app** — [propel/propel](https://github.com/jw29247/propel) (apps/ios)
- **Android app** — [propel/propel](https://github.com/jw29247/propel) (apps/android)
- **ClawHub** — [propel/clawhub](https://github.com/propel/clawhub)
- **Trust and threat model** — [propel/trust](https://github.com/propel/trust)

For issues that don't fit a specific repo, or if you're unsure, email **security@propel.ai** and we'll route it.

For full reporting instructions see our [Trust page](https://trust.propel.ai).

### Required in Reports

1. **Title**
2. **Severity Assessment**
3. **Impact**
4. **Affected Component**
5. **Technical Reproduction**
6. **Demonstrated Impact**
7. **Environment**
8. **Remediation Advice**

Reports without reproduction steps, demonstrated impact, and remediation advice will be deprioritized. Given the volume of AI-generated scanner findings, we must ensure we're receiving vetted reports from researchers who understand the issues.

## Security & Trust

**Jamieson O'Reilly** ([@theonejvo](https://twitter.com/theonejvo)) is Security & Trust at Propel. Jamieson is the founder of [Dvuln](https://dvuln.com) and brings extensive experience in offensive security, penetration testing, and security program development.

## Bug Bounties

Propel is a labor of love. There is no bug bounty program and no budget for paid reports. Please still disclose responsibly so we can fix issues quickly.
The best way to help the project right now is by sending PRs.

## Maintainers: GHSA Updates via CLI

When patching a GHSA via `gh api`, include `X-GitHub-Api-Version: 2022-11-28` (or newer). Without it, some fields (notably CVSS) may not persist even if the request returns 200.

## Out of Scope

- Public Internet Exposure
- Using Propel in ways that the docs recommend not to
- Deployments where mutually untrusted/adversarial operators share one gateway host and config
- Prompt injection attacks
- Reports that require write access to trusted local state (`~/.propel`, workspace files like `MEMORY.md` / `memory/*.md`)

## Deployment Assumptions

Propel security guidance assumes:

- The host where Propel runs is within a trusted OS/admin boundary.
- Anyone who can modify `~/.propel` state/config (including `propel.json`) is effectively a trusted operator.
- A single Gateway shared by mutually untrusted people is **not a recommended setup**. Use separate gateways (or at minimum separate OS users/hosts) per trust boundary.
- Authenticated Gateway callers are treated as trusted operators. Session identifiers (for example `sessionKey`) are routing controls, not per-user authorization boundaries.

## Workspace Memory Trust Boundary

`MEMORY.md` and `memory/*.md` are plain workspace files and are treated as trusted local operator state.

- If someone can edit workspace memory files, they already crossed the trusted operator boundary.
- Memory search indexing/recall over those files is expected behavior, not a sandbox/security boundary.
- Example report pattern considered out of scope: "attacker writes malicious content into `memory/*.md`, then `memory_search` returns it."
- If you need isolation between mutually untrusted users, split by OS user or host and run separate gateways.

## Plugin Trust Boundary

Plugins/extensions are loaded **in-process** with the Gateway and are treated as trusted code.

- Plugins can execute with the same OS privileges as the Propel process.
- Runtime helpers (for example `runtime.system.runCommandWithTimeout`) are convenience APIs, not a sandbox boundary.
- Only install plugins you trust, and prefer `plugins.allow` to pin explicit trusted plugin ids.

## Operational Guidance

For threat model + hardening guidance (including `propel security audit --deep` and `--fix`), see:

- `https://docs.propel.ai/gateway/security`

### Tool filesystem hardening

- `tools.exec.applyPatch.workspaceOnly: true` (recommended): keeps `apply_patch` writes/deletes within the configured workspace directory.
- `tools.fs.workspaceOnly: true` (optional): restricts `read`/`write`/`edit`/`apply_patch` paths to the workspace directory.
- Avoid setting `tools.exec.applyPatch.workspaceOnly: false` unless you fully trust who can trigger tool execution.

### Web Interface Safety

Propel's web interface (Gateway Control UI + HTTP endpoints) is intended for **local use only**.

- Recommended: keep the Gateway **loopback-only** (`127.0.0.1` / `::1`).
  - Config: `gateway.bind="loopback"` (default).
  - CLI: `propel gateway run --bind loopback`.
- `gateway.controlUi.dangerouslyDisableDeviceAuth` is intended for localhost-only break-glass use.
  - Propel keeps deployment flexibility by design and does not hard-forbid non-local setups.
  - Non-local and other risky configurations are surfaced by `propel security audit` as dangerous findings.
  - This operator-selected tradeoff is by design and not, by itself, a security vulnerability.
- Canvas host note: network-visible canvas is **intentional** for trusted node scenarios (LAN/tailnet).
  - Expected setup: non-loopback bind + Gateway auth (token/password/trusted-proxy) + firewall/tailnet controls.
  - Expected routes: `/__propel__/canvas/`, `/__propel__/a2ui/`.
  - This deployment model alone is not a security vulnerability.
- Do **not** expose it to the public internet (no direct bind to `0.0.0.0`, no public reverse proxy). It is not hardened for public exposure.
- If you need remote access, prefer an SSH tunnel or Tailscale serve/funnel (so the Gateway still binds to loopback), plus strong Gateway auth.
- The Gateway HTTP surface includes the canvas host (`/__propel__/canvas/`, `/__propel__/a2ui/`). Treat canvas content as sensitive/untrusted and avoid exposing it beyond loopback unless you understand the risk.

## Runtime Requirements

### Node.js Version

Propel requires **Node.js 22.12.0 or later** (LTS). This version includes important security patches:

- CVE-2025-59466: async_hooks DoS vulnerability
- CVE-2026-21636: Permission model bypass vulnerability

Verify your Node.js version:

```bash
node --version  # Should be v22.12.0 or later
```

### Docker Security

When running Propel in Docker:

1. The official image runs as a non-root user (`node`) for reduced attack surface
2. Use `--read-only` flag when possible for additional filesystem protection
3. Limit container capabilities with `--cap-drop=ALL`

Example secure Docker run:

```bash
docker run --read-only --cap-drop=ALL \
  -v propel-data:/app/data \
  propel/propel:latest
```

## Security Scanning

This project uses `detect-secrets` for automated secret detection in CI/CD.
See `.detect-secrets.cfg` for configuration and `.secrets.baseline` for the baseline.

Run locally:

```bash
pip install detect-secrets==1.5.0
detect-secrets scan --baseline .secrets.baseline
```
