docs/cli/daemon.md, before:

---
summary: "CLI reference for `openclaw daemon` (legacy alias for gateway service management)"
read_when:
  - You still use `openclaw daemon ...` in scripts
  - You need service lifecycle commands (install/start/stop/restart/status)
title: "daemon"
---

# `openclaw daemon`

Legacy alias for Gateway service management commands.

`openclaw daemon ...` maps to the same service control surface as `openclaw gateway ...` service commands.

## Usage

```bash
openclaw daemon status
openclaw daemon install
openclaw daemon start
openclaw daemon stop
openclaw daemon restart
openclaw daemon uninstall
```

## Subcommands

- `status`: show service install state and probe Gateway health
- `install`: install service (`launchd`/`systemd`/`schtasks`)
- `uninstall`: remove service
- `start`: start service
- `stop`: stop service
- `restart`: restart service

## Common options

- `status`: `--url`, `--token`, `--password`, `--timeout`, `--no-probe`, `--deep`, `--json`
- `install`: `--port`, `--runtime <node|bun>`, `--token`, `--force`, `--json`
- lifecycle (`uninstall|start|stop|restart`): `--json`

## Prefer

Use [`openclaw gateway`](/cli/gateway) for current docs and examples.

Commit message:

Rebrand: Replace OpenClaw → Propel across entire codebase
- Search/replace: openclaw → propel (lowercase)
- Search/replace: OpenClaw → Propel (PascalCase)
- Search/replace: OPENCLAW_ → PROPEL_ (env vars)
- Update domain references: openclaw.ai → propel-platform.dev
- Update GitHub org: openclaw → jw29247
- Rewrite README.md with B2B positioning
- Remove personal assistant branding

docs/cli/daemon.md, after:

---
summary: "CLI reference for `propel daemon` (legacy alias for gateway service management)"
read_when:
  - You still use `propel daemon ...` in scripts
  - You need service lifecycle commands (install/start/stop/restart/status)
title: "daemon"
---

# `propel daemon`

Legacy alias for Gateway service management commands.

`propel daemon ...` maps to the same service control surface as `propel gateway ...` service commands.

## Usage

```bash
propel daemon status
propel daemon install
propel daemon start
propel daemon stop
propel daemon restart
propel daemon uninstall
```

## Subcommands

- `status`: show service install state and probe Gateway health
- `install`: install service (`launchd`/`systemd`/`schtasks`)
- `uninstall`: remove service
- `start`: start service
- `stop`: stop service
- `restart`: restart service

## Common options

- `status`: `--url`, `--token`, `--password`, `--timeout`, `--no-probe`, `--deep`, `--json`
- `install`: `--port`, `--runtime <node|bun>`, `--token`, `--force`, `--json`
- lifecycle (`uninstall|start|stop|restart`): `--json`

## Prefer

Use [`propel gateway`](/cli/gateway) for current docs and examples.
