docs/channels/irc.md, before:

---
title: IRC
description: Connect OpenClaw to IRC channels and direct messages.
summary: "IRC plugin setup, access controls, and troubleshooting"
read_when:
  - You want to connect OpenClaw to IRC channels or DMs
  - You are configuring IRC allowlists, group policy, or mention gating
---

Use IRC when you want OpenClaw in classic channels (`#room`) and direct messages.
IRC ships as an extension plugin, but it is configured in the main config under `channels.irc`.

## Quick start

1. Enable IRC config in `~/.openclaw/openclaw.json`.
2. Set at least:

```json
{
  "channels": {
    "irc": {
      "enabled": true,
      "host": "irc.libera.chat",
      "port": 6697,
      "tls": true,
      "nick": "openclaw-bot",
      "channels": ["#openclaw"]
    }
  }
}
```

3. Start/restart gateway:

```bash
openclaw gateway run
```

## Security defaults

- `channels.irc.dmPolicy` defaults to `"pairing"`.
- `channels.irc.groupPolicy` defaults to `"allowlist"`.
- With `groupPolicy="allowlist"`, set `channels.irc.groups` to define allowed channels.
- Use TLS (`channels.irc.tls=true`) unless you intentionally accept plaintext transport.

## Access control

There are two separate “gates” for IRC channels:

1. **Channel access** (`groupPolicy` + `groups`): whether the bot accepts messages from a channel at all.
2. **Sender access** (`groupAllowFrom` / per-channel `groups["#channel"].allowFrom`): who is allowed to trigger the bot inside that channel.

Config keys:

- DM allowlist (DM sender access): `channels.irc.allowFrom`
- Group sender allowlist (channel sender access): `channels.irc.groupAllowFrom`
- Per-channel controls (channel + sender + mention rules): `channels.irc.groups["#channel"]`
- `channels.irc.groupPolicy="open"` allows unconfigured channels (**still mention-gated by default**)

Allowlist entries can use nick or `nick!user@host` forms.

### Common gotcha: `allowFrom` is for DMs, not channels

If you see logs like:

- `irc: drop group sender alice!ident@host (policy=allowlist)`

…it means the sender wasn’t allowed for **group/channel** messages. Fix it by either:

- setting `channels.irc.groupAllowFrom` (global for all channels), or
- setting per-channel sender allowlists: `channels.irc.groups["#channel"].allowFrom`

Example (allow anyone in `#tuirc-dev` to talk to the bot):

```json5
{
  channels: {
    irc: {
      groupPolicy: "allowlist",
      groups: {
        "#tuirc-dev": { allowFrom: ["*"] },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

## Reply triggering (mentions)

Even if a channel is allowed (via `groupPolicy` + `groups`) and the sender is allowed, OpenClaw defaults to **mention-gating** in group contexts.

That means you may see logs like `drop channel … (missing-mention)` unless the message includes a mention pattern that matches the bot.

To make the bot reply in an IRC channel **without needing a mention**, disable mention gating for that channel:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    irc: {
      groupPolicy: "allowlist",
      groups: {
        "#tuirc-dev": {
          requireMention: false,
          allowFrom: ["*"],
        },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

Or to allow **all** IRC channels (no per-channel allowlist) and still reply without mentions:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    irc: {
      groupPolicy: "open",
      groups: {
        "*": { requireMention: false, allowFrom: ["*"] },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

## Security note (recommended for public channels)

If you allow `allowFrom: ["*"]` in a public channel, anyone can prompt the bot.
To reduce risk, restrict tools for that channel.

### Same tools for everyone in the channel

```json5
{
  channels: {
    irc: {
      groups: {
        "#tuirc-dev": {
          allowFrom: ["*"],
          tools: {
            deny: ["group:runtime", "group:fs", "gateway", "nodes", "cron", "browser"],
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

### Different tools per sender (owner gets more power)

Use `toolsBySender` to apply a stricter policy to `"*"` and a looser one to your nick:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    irc: {
      groups: {
        "#tuirc-dev": {
          allowFrom: ["*"],
          toolsBySender: {
            "*": {
              deny: ["group:runtime", "group:fs", "gateway", "nodes", "cron", "browser"],
            },
            "id:eigen": {
              deny: ["gateway", "nodes", "cron"],
            },
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

Notes:

- `toolsBySender` keys should use `id:` for IRC sender identity values:
  `id:eigen` or `id:eigen!~eigen@174.127.248.171` for stronger matching.
- Legacy unprefixed keys are still accepted and matched as `id:` only.
- The first matching sender policy wins; `"*"` is the wildcard fallback.

For more on group access vs mention-gating (and how they interact), see: [/channels/groups](/channels/groups).

## NickServ

To identify with NickServ after connect:

```json
{
  "channels": {
    "irc": {
      "nickserv": {
        "enabled": true,
        "service": "NickServ",
        "password": "your-nickserv-password"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Optional one-time registration on connect:

```json
{
  "channels": {
    "irc": {
      "nickserv": {
        "register": true,
        "registerEmail": "bot@example.com"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Disable `register` after the nick is registered to avoid repeated REGISTER attempts.

## Environment variables

Default account supports:

- `IRC_HOST`
- `IRC_PORT`
- `IRC_TLS`
- `IRC_NICK`
- `IRC_USERNAME`
- `IRC_REALNAME`
- `IRC_PASSWORD`
- `IRC_CHANNELS` (comma-separated)
- `IRC_NICKSERV_PASSWORD`
- `IRC_NICKSERV_REGISTER_EMAIL`

## Troubleshooting

- If the bot connects but never replies in channels, verify `channels.irc.groups` **and** whether mention-gating is dropping messages (`missing-mention`). If you want it to reply without pings, set `requireMention:false` for the channel.
- If login fails, verify nick availability and server password.
- If TLS fails on a custom network, verify host/port and certificate setup.

Commit message:

Rebrand: Replace OpenClaw → Propel across entire codebase
- Search/replace: openclaw → propel (lowercase)
- Search/replace: OpenClaw → Propel (PascalCase)
- Search/replace: OPENCLAW_ → PROPEL_ (env vars)
- Update domain references: openclaw.ai → propel-platform.dev
- Update GitHub org: openclaw → jw29247
- Rewrite README.md with B2B positioning
- Remove personal assistant branding

docs/channels/irc.md, after:

---
title: IRC
description: Connect Propel to IRC channels and direct messages.
summary: "IRC plugin setup, access controls, and troubleshooting"
read_when:
  - You want to connect Propel to IRC channels or DMs
  - You are configuring IRC allowlists, group policy, or mention gating
---

Use IRC when you want Propel in classic channels (`#room`) and direct messages.
IRC ships as an extension plugin, but it is configured in the main config under `channels.irc`.

## Quick start

1. Enable IRC config in `~/.propel/propel.json`.
2. Set at least:

```json
{
  "channels": {
    "irc": {
      "enabled": true,
      "host": "irc.libera.chat",
      "port": 6697,
      "tls": true,
      "nick": "propel-bot",
      "channels": ["#propel"]
    }
  }
}
```

3. Start/restart gateway:

```bash
propel gateway run
```

## Security defaults

- `channels.irc.dmPolicy` defaults to `"pairing"`.
- `channels.irc.groupPolicy` defaults to `"allowlist"`.
- With `groupPolicy="allowlist"`, set `channels.irc.groups` to define allowed channels.
- Use TLS (`channels.irc.tls=true`) unless you intentionally accept plaintext transport.

## Access control

There are two separate “gates” for IRC channels:

1. **Channel access** (`groupPolicy` + `groups`): whether the bot accepts messages from a channel at all.
2. **Sender access** (`groupAllowFrom` / per-channel `groups["#channel"].allowFrom`): who is allowed to trigger the bot inside that channel.

Config keys:

- DM allowlist (DM sender access): `channels.irc.allowFrom`
- Group sender allowlist (channel sender access): `channels.irc.groupAllowFrom`
- Per-channel controls (channel + sender + mention rules): `channels.irc.groups["#channel"]`
- `channels.irc.groupPolicy="open"` allows unconfigured channels (**still mention-gated by default**)

Allowlist entries can use nick or `nick!user@host` forms.

### Common gotcha: `allowFrom` is for DMs, not channels

If you see logs like:

- `irc: drop group sender alice!ident@host (policy=allowlist)`

…it means the sender wasn’t allowed for **group/channel** messages. Fix it by either:

- setting `channels.irc.groupAllowFrom` (global for all channels), or
- setting per-channel sender allowlists: `channels.irc.groups["#channel"].allowFrom`

Example (allow anyone in `#tuirc-dev` to talk to the bot):

```json5
{
  channels: {
    irc: {
      groupPolicy: "allowlist",
      groups: {
        "#tuirc-dev": { allowFrom: ["*"] },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

## Reply triggering (mentions)

Even if a channel is allowed (via `groupPolicy` + `groups`) and the sender is allowed, Propel defaults to **mention-gating** in group contexts.

That means you may see logs like `drop channel … (missing-mention)` unless the message includes a mention pattern that matches the bot.

To make the bot reply in an IRC channel **without needing a mention**, disable mention gating for that channel:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    irc: {
      groupPolicy: "allowlist",
      groups: {
        "#tuirc-dev": {
          requireMention: false,
          allowFrom: ["*"],
        },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

Or to allow **all** IRC channels (no per-channel allowlist) and still reply without mentions:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    irc: {
      groupPolicy: "open",
      groups: {
        "*": { requireMention: false, allowFrom: ["*"] },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

## Security note (recommended for public channels)

If you allow `allowFrom: ["*"]` in a public channel, anyone can prompt the bot.
To reduce risk, restrict tools for that channel.

### Same tools for everyone in the channel

```json5
{
  channels: {
    irc: {
      groups: {
        "#tuirc-dev": {
          allowFrom: ["*"],
          tools: {
            deny: ["group:runtime", "group:fs", "gateway", "nodes", "cron", "browser"],
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

### Different tools per sender (owner gets more power)

Use `toolsBySender` to apply a stricter policy to `"*"` and a looser one to your nick:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    irc: {
      groups: {
        "#tuirc-dev": {
          allowFrom: ["*"],
          toolsBySender: {
            "*": {
              deny: ["group:runtime", "group:fs", "gateway", "nodes", "cron", "browser"],
            },
            "id:eigen": {
              deny: ["gateway", "nodes", "cron"],
            },
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

Notes:

- `toolsBySender` keys should use `id:` for IRC sender identity values:
  `id:eigen` or `id:eigen!~eigen@174.127.248.171` for stronger matching.
- Legacy unprefixed keys are still accepted and matched as `id:` only.
- The first matching sender policy wins; `"*"` is the wildcard fallback.

For more on group access vs mention-gating (and how they interact), see: [/channels/groups](/channels/groups).

## NickServ

To identify with NickServ after connect:

```json
{
  "channels": {
    "irc": {
      "nickserv": {
        "enabled": true,
        "service": "NickServ",
        "password": "your-nickserv-password"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Optional one-time registration on connect:

```json
{
  "channels": {
    "irc": {
      "nickserv": {
        "register": true,
        "registerEmail": "bot@example.com"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Disable `register` after the nick is registered to avoid repeated REGISTER attempts.

## Environment variables

Default account supports:

- `IRC_HOST`
- `IRC_PORT`
- `IRC_TLS`
- `IRC_NICK`
- `IRC_USERNAME`
- `IRC_REALNAME`
- `IRC_PASSWORD`
- `IRC_CHANNELS` (comma-separated)
- `IRC_NICKSERV_PASSWORD`
- `IRC_NICKSERV_REGISTER_EMAIL`

## Troubleshooting

- If the bot connects but never replies in channels, verify `channels.irc.groups` **and** whether mention-gating is dropping messages (`missing-mention`). If you want it to reply without pings, set `requireMention:false` for the channel.
- If login fails, verify nick availability and server password.
- If TLS fails on a custom network, verify host/port and certificate setup.
