docs/channels/line.md, before:

---
summary: "LINE Messaging API plugin setup, config, and usage"
read_when:
  - You want to connect OpenClaw to LINE
  - You need LINE webhook + credential setup
  - You want LINE-specific message options
title: LINE
---

# LINE (plugin)

LINE connects to OpenClaw via the LINE Messaging API. The plugin runs as a webhook
receiver on the gateway and uses your channel access token + channel secret for
authentication.

Status: supported via plugin. Direct messages, group chats, media, locations, Flex
messages, template messages, and quick replies are supported. Reactions and threads
are not supported.

## Plugin required

Install the LINE plugin:

```bash
openclaw plugins install @openclaw/line
```

Local checkout (when running from a git repo):

```bash
openclaw plugins install ./extensions/line
```

## Setup

1. Create a LINE Developers account and open the Console:
   [https://developers.line.biz/console/](https://developers.line.biz/console/)
2. Create (or pick) a Provider and add a **Messaging API** channel.
3. Copy the **Channel access token** and **Channel secret** from the channel settings.
4. Enable **Use webhook** in the Messaging API settings.
5. Set the webhook URL to your gateway endpoint (HTTPS required):

```
https://gateway-host/line/webhook
```

The gateway responds to LINE’s webhook verification (GET) and inbound events (POST).
If you need a custom path, set `channels.line.webhookPath` or
`channels.line.accounts.<id>.webhookPath` and update the URL accordingly.

## Configure

Minimal config:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    line: {
      enabled: true,
      channelAccessToken: "LINE_CHANNEL_ACCESS_TOKEN",
      channelSecret: "LINE_CHANNEL_SECRET",
      dmPolicy: "pairing",
    },
  },
}
```

Env vars (default account only):

- `LINE_CHANNEL_ACCESS_TOKEN`
- `LINE_CHANNEL_SECRET`

Token/secret files:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    line: {
      tokenFile: "/path/to/line-token.txt",
      secretFile: "/path/to/line-secret.txt",
    },
  },
}
```

Multiple accounts:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    line: {
      accounts: {
        marketing: {
          channelAccessToken: "...",
          channelSecret: "...",
          webhookPath: "/line/marketing",
        },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

## Access control

Direct messages default to pairing. Unknown senders get a pairing code and their
messages are ignored until approved.

```bash
openclaw pairing list line
openclaw pairing approve line <CODE>
```

Allowlists and policies:

- `channels.line.dmPolicy`: `pairing | allowlist | open | disabled`
- `channels.line.allowFrom`: allowlisted LINE user IDs for DMs
- `channels.line.groupPolicy`: `allowlist | open | disabled`
- `channels.line.groupAllowFrom`: allowlisted LINE user IDs for groups
- Per-group overrides: `channels.line.groups.<groupId>.allowFrom`
- Runtime note: if `channels.line` is completely missing, runtime falls back to `groupPolicy="allowlist"` for group checks (even if `channels.defaults.groupPolicy` is set).

LINE IDs are case-sensitive. Valid IDs look like:

- User: `U` + 32 hex chars
- Group: `C` + 32 hex chars
- Room: `R` + 32 hex chars

## Message behavior

- Text is chunked at 5000 characters.
- Markdown formatting is stripped; code blocks and tables are converted into Flex
  cards when possible.
- Streaming responses are buffered; LINE receives full chunks with a loading
  animation while the agent works.
- Media downloads are capped by `channels.line.mediaMaxMb` (default 10).

## Channel data (rich messages)

Use `channelData.line` to send quick replies, locations, Flex cards, or template
messages.

```json5
{
  text: "Here you go",
  channelData: {
    line: {
      quickReplies: ["Status", "Help"],
      location: {
        title: "Office",
        address: "123 Main St",
        latitude: 35.681236,
        longitude: 139.767125,
      },
      flexMessage: {
        altText: "Status card",
        contents: {
          /* Flex payload */
        },
      },
      templateMessage: {
        type: "confirm",
        text: "Proceed?",
        confirmLabel: "Yes",
        confirmData: "yes",
        cancelLabel: "No",
        cancelData: "no",
      },
    },
  },
}
```

The LINE plugin also ships a `/card` command for Flex message presets:

```
/card info "Welcome" "Thanks for joining!"
```

## Troubleshooting

- **Webhook verification fails:** ensure the webhook URL is HTTPS and the
  `channelSecret` matches the LINE console.
- **No inbound events:** confirm the webhook path matches `channels.line.webhookPath`
  and that the gateway is reachable from LINE.
- **Media download errors:** raise `channels.line.mediaMaxMb` if media exceeds the
  default limit.

Commit message:

Rebrand: Replace OpenClaw → Propel across entire codebase
- Search/replace: openclaw → propel (lowercase)
- Search/replace: OpenClaw → Propel (PascalCase)
- Search/replace: OPENCLAW_ → PROPEL_ (env vars)
- Update domain references: openclaw.ai → propel-platform.dev
- Update GitHub org: openclaw → jw29247
- Rewrite README.md with B2B positioning
- Remove personal assistant branding

docs/channels/line.md, after:

---
summary: "LINE Messaging API plugin setup, config, and usage"
read_when:
  - You want to connect Propel to LINE
  - You need LINE webhook + credential setup
  - You want LINE-specific message options
title: LINE
---

# LINE (plugin)

LINE connects to Propel via the LINE Messaging API. The plugin runs as a webhook
receiver on the gateway and uses your channel access token + channel secret for
authentication.

Status: supported via plugin. Direct messages, group chats, media, locations, Flex
messages, template messages, and quick replies are supported. Reactions and threads
are not supported.

## Plugin required

Install the LINE plugin:

```bash
propel plugins install @propel/line
```

Local checkout (when running from a git repo):

```bash
propel plugins install ./extensions/line
```

## Setup

1. Create a LINE Developers account and open the Console:
   [https://developers.line.biz/console/](https://developers.line.biz/console/)
2. Create (or pick) a Provider and add a **Messaging API** channel.
3. Copy the **Channel access token** and **Channel secret** from the channel settings.
4. Enable **Use webhook** in the Messaging API settings.
5. Set the webhook URL to your gateway endpoint (HTTPS required):

```
https://gateway-host/line/webhook
```

The gateway responds to LINE’s webhook verification (GET) and inbound events (POST).
If you need a custom path, set `channels.line.webhookPath` or
`channels.line.accounts.<id>.webhookPath` and update the URL accordingly.

## Configure

Minimal config:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    line: {
      enabled: true,
      channelAccessToken: "LINE_CHANNEL_ACCESS_TOKEN",
      channelSecret: "LINE_CHANNEL_SECRET",
      dmPolicy: "pairing",
    },
  },
}
```

Env vars (default account only):

- `LINE_CHANNEL_ACCESS_TOKEN`
- `LINE_CHANNEL_SECRET`

Token/secret files:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    line: {
      tokenFile: "/path/to/line-token.txt",
      secretFile: "/path/to/line-secret.txt",
    },
  },
}
```

Multiple accounts:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    line: {
      accounts: {
        marketing: {
          channelAccessToken: "...",
          channelSecret: "...",
          webhookPath: "/line/marketing",
        },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

## Access control

Direct messages default to pairing. Unknown senders get a pairing code and their
messages are ignored until approved.

```bash
propel pairing list line
propel pairing approve line <CODE>
```

Allowlists and policies:

- `channels.line.dmPolicy`: `pairing | allowlist | open | disabled`
- `channels.line.allowFrom`: allowlisted LINE user IDs for DMs
- `channels.line.groupPolicy`: `allowlist | open | disabled`
- `channels.line.groupAllowFrom`: allowlisted LINE user IDs for groups
- Per-group overrides: `channels.line.groups.<groupId>.allowFrom`
- Runtime note: if `channels.line` is completely missing, runtime falls back to `groupPolicy="allowlist"` for group checks (even if `channels.defaults.groupPolicy` is set).

LINE IDs are case-sensitive. Valid IDs look like:

- User: `U` + 32 hex chars
- Group: `C` + 32 hex chars
- Room: `R` + 32 hex chars

## Message behavior

- Text is chunked at 5000 characters.
- Markdown formatting is stripped; code blocks and tables are converted into Flex
  cards when possible.
- Streaming responses are buffered; LINE receives full chunks with a loading
  animation while the agent works.
- Media downloads are capped by `channels.line.mediaMaxMb` (default 10).

## Channel data (rich messages)

Use `channelData.line` to send quick replies, locations, Flex cards, or template
messages.

```json5
{
  text: "Here you go",
  channelData: {
    line: {
      quickReplies: ["Status", "Help"],
      location: {
        title: "Office",
        address: "123 Main St",
        latitude: 35.681236,
        longitude: 139.767125,
      },
      flexMessage: {
        altText: "Status card",
        contents: {
          /* Flex payload */
        },
      },
      templateMessage: {
        type: "confirm",
        text: "Proceed?",
        confirmLabel: "Yes",
        confirmData: "yes",
        cancelLabel: "No",
        cancelData: "no",
      },
    },
  },
}
```

The LINE plugin also ships a `/card` command for Flex message presets:

```
/card info "Welcome" "Thanks for joining!"
```

## Troubleshooting

- **Webhook verification fails:** ensure the webhook URL is HTTPS and the
  `channelSecret` matches the LINE console.
- **No inbound events:** confirm the webhook path matches `channels.line.webhookPath`
  and that the gateway is reachable from LINE.
- **Media download errors:** raise `channels.line.mediaMaxMb` if media exceeds the
  default limit.
