docs/install/exe-dev.md, before:

---
summary: "Run OpenClaw Gateway on exe.dev (VM + HTTPS proxy) for remote access"
read_when:
  - You want a cheap always-on Linux host for the Gateway
  - You want remote Control UI access without running your own VPS
title: "exe.dev"
---

# exe.dev

Goal: OpenClaw Gateway running on an exe.dev VM, reachable from your laptop via: `https://<vm-name>.exe.xyz`

This page assumes exe.dev's default **exeuntu** image. If you picked a different distro, map packages accordingly.

## Beginner quick path

1. [https://exe.new/openclaw](https://exe.new/openclaw)
2. Fill in your auth key/token as needed
3. Click on "Agent" next to your VM, and wait...
4. ???
5. Profit

## What you need

- exe.dev account
- `ssh exe.dev` access to [exe.dev](https://exe.dev) virtual machines (optional)

## Automated Install with Shelley

Shelley, [exe.dev](https://exe.dev)'s agent, can install OpenClaw instantly with our
prompt. The prompt used is as below:

```
Set up OpenClaw (https://docs.openclaw.ai/install) on this VM. Use the non-interactive and accept-risk flags for openclaw onboarding. Add the supplied auth or token as needed. Configure nginx to forward from the default port 18789 to the root location on the default enabled site config, making sure to enable Websocket support. Pairing is done by "openclaw devices list" and "openclaw devices approve <request id>". Make sure the dashboard shows that OpenClaw's health is OK. exe.dev handles forwarding from port 8000 to port 80/443 and HTTPS for us, so the final "reachable" should be <vm-name>.exe.xyz, without port specification.
```

## Manual installation

## 1) Create the VM

From your device:

```bash
ssh exe.dev new
```

Then connect:

```bash
ssh <vm-name>.exe.xyz
```

Tip: keep this VM **stateful**. OpenClaw stores state under `~/.openclaw/` and `~/.openclaw/workspace/`.

## 2) Install prerequisites (on the VM)

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y git curl jq ca-certificates openssl
```

## 3) Install OpenClaw

Run the OpenClaw install script:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://openclaw.ai/install.sh | bash
```

## 4) Setup nginx to proxy OpenClaw to port 8000

Edit `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default` with

```
server {
    listen 80 default_server;
    listen [::]:80 default_server;
    listen 8000;
    listen [::]:8000;

    server_name _;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:18789;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;

        # WebSocket support
        proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";

        # Standard proxy headers
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;

        # Timeout settings for long-lived connections
        proxy_read_timeout 86400s;
        proxy_send_timeout 86400s;
    }
}
```

## 5) Access OpenClaw and grant privileges

Access `https://<vm-name>.exe.xyz/` (see the Control UI output from onboarding). If it prompts for auth, paste the
token from `gateway.auth.token` on the VM (retrieve with `openclaw config get gateway.auth.token`, or generate one
with `openclaw doctor --generate-gateway-token`). Approve devices with `openclaw devices list` and
`openclaw devices approve <requestId>`. When in doubt, use Shelley from your browser!

## Remote Access

Remote access is handled by [exe.dev](https://exe.dev)'s authentication. By
default, HTTP traffic from port 8000 is forwarded to `https://<vm-name>.exe.xyz`
with email auth.

## Updating

```bash
npm i -g openclaw@latest
openclaw doctor
openclaw gateway restart
openclaw health
```

Guide: [Updating](/install/updating)

Commit message:

Rebrand: Replace OpenClaw → Propel across entire codebase
- Search/replace: openclaw → propel (lowercase)
- Search/replace: OpenClaw → Propel (PascalCase)
- Search/replace: OPENCLAW_ → PROPEL_ (env vars)
- Update domain references: openclaw.ai → propel-platform.dev
- Update GitHub org: openclaw → jw29247
- Rewrite README.md with B2B positioning
- Remove personal assistant branding

docs/install/exe-dev.md, after:

---
summary: "Run Propel Gateway on exe.dev (VM + HTTPS proxy) for remote access"
read_when:
  - You want a cheap always-on Linux host for the Gateway
  - You want remote Control UI access without running your own VPS
title: "exe.dev"
---

# exe.dev

Goal: Propel Gateway running on an exe.dev VM, reachable from your laptop via: `https://<vm-name>.exe.xyz`

This page assumes exe.dev's default **exeuntu** image. If you picked a different distro, map packages accordingly.

## Beginner quick path

1. [https://exe.new/propel](https://exe.new/propel)
2. Fill in your auth key/token as needed
3. Click on "Agent" next to your VM, and wait...
4. ???
5. Profit

## What you need

- exe.dev account
- `ssh exe.dev` access to [exe.dev](https://exe.dev) virtual machines (optional)

## Automated Install with Shelley

Shelley, [exe.dev](https://exe.dev)'s agent, can install Propel instantly with our
prompt. The prompt used is as below:

```
Set up Propel (https://docs.propel.ai/install) on this VM. Use the non-interactive and accept-risk flags for propel onboarding. Add the supplied auth or token as needed. Configure nginx to forward from the default port 18789 to the root location on the default enabled site config, making sure to enable Websocket support. Pairing is done by "propel devices list" and "propel devices approve <request id>". Make sure the dashboard shows that Propel's health is OK. exe.dev handles forwarding from port 8000 to port 80/443 and HTTPS for us, so the final "reachable" should be <vm-name>.exe.xyz, without port specification.
```

## Manual installation

## 1) Create the VM

From your device:

```bash
ssh exe.dev new
```

Then connect:

```bash
ssh <vm-name>.exe.xyz
```

Tip: keep this VM **stateful**. Propel stores state under `~/.propel/` and `~/.propel/workspace/`.

## 2) Install prerequisites (on the VM)

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y git curl jq ca-certificates openssl
```

## 3) Install Propel

Run the Propel install script:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://propel.ai/install.sh | bash
```

## 4) Setup nginx to proxy Propel to port 8000

Edit `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default` with

```
server {
    listen 80 default_server;
    listen [::]:80 default_server;
    listen 8000;
    listen [::]:8000;

    server_name _;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:18789;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;

        # WebSocket support
        proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";

        # Standard proxy headers
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;

        # Timeout settings for long-lived connections
        proxy_read_timeout 86400s;
        proxy_send_timeout 86400s;
    }
}
```

## 5) Access Propel and grant privileges

Access `https://<vm-name>.exe.xyz/` (see the Control UI output from onboarding). If it prompts for auth, paste the
token from `gateway.auth.token` on the VM (retrieve with `propel config get gateway.auth.token`, or generate one
with `propel doctor --generate-gateway-token`). Approve devices with `propel devices list` and
`propel devices approve <requestId>`. When in doubt, use Shelley from your browser!

## Remote Access

Remote access is handled by [exe.dev](https://exe.dev)'s authentication. By
default, HTTP traffic from port 8000 is forwarded to `https://<vm-name>.exe.xyz`
with email auth.

## Updating

```bash
npm i -g propel@latest
propel doctor
propel gateway restart
propel health
```

Guide: [Updating](/install/updating)
