docs/providers/qwen.md, before:

---
summary: "Use Qwen OAuth (free tier) in OpenClaw"
read_when:
  - You want to use Qwen with OpenClaw
  - You want free-tier OAuth access to Qwen Coder
title: "Qwen"
---

# Qwen

Qwen provides a free-tier OAuth flow for Qwen Coder and Qwen Vision models
(2,000 requests/day, subject to Qwen rate limits).

## Enable the plugin

```bash
openclaw plugins enable qwen-portal-auth
```

Restart the Gateway after enabling.

## Authenticate

```bash
openclaw models auth login --provider qwen-portal --set-default
```

This runs the Qwen device-code OAuth flow and writes a provider entry to your
`models.json` (plus a `qwen` alias for quick switching).

## Model IDs

- `qwen-portal/coder-model`
- `qwen-portal/vision-model`

Switch models with:

```bash
openclaw models set qwen-portal/coder-model
```

## Reuse Qwen Code CLI login

If you already logged in with the Qwen Code CLI, OpenClaw will sync credentials
from `~/.qwen/oauth_creds.json` when it loads the auth store. You still need a
`models.providers.qwen-portal` entry (use the login command above to create one).

## Notes

- Tokens auto-refresh; re-run the login command if refresh fails or access is revoked.
- Default base URL: `https://portal.qwen.ai/v1` (override with
  `models.providers.qwen-portal.baseUrl` if Qwen provides a different endpoint).
- See [Model providers](/concepts/model-providers) for provider-wide rules.

Commit message:

Rebrand: Replace OpenClaw → Propel across entire codebase
- Search/replace: openclaw → propel (lowercase)
- Search/replace: OpenClaw → Propel (PascalCase)
- Search/replace: OPENCLAW_ → PROPEL_ (env vars)
- Update domain references: openclaw.ai → propel-platform.dev
- Update GitHub org: openclaw → jw29247
- Rewrite README.md with B2B positioning
- Remove personal assistant branding

docs/providers/qwen.md, after:

---
summary: "Use Qwen OAuth (free tier) in Propel"
read_when:
  - You want to use Qwen with Propel
  - You want free-tier OAuth access to Qwen Coder
title: "Qwen"
---

# Qwen

Qwen provides a free-tier OAuth flow for Qwen Coder and Qwen Vision models
(2,000 requests/day, subject to Qwen rate limits).

## Enable the plugin

```bash
propel plugins enable qwen-portal-auth
```

Restart the Gateway after enabling.

## Authenticate

```bash
propel models auth login --provider qwen-portal --set-default
```

This runs the Qwen device-code OAuth flow and writes a provider entry to your
`models.json` (plus a `qwen` alias for quick switching).

## Model IDs

- `qwen-portal/coder-model`
- `qwen-portal/vision-model`

Switch models with:

```bash
propel models set qwen-portal/coder-model
```

## Reuse Qwen Code CLI login

If you already logged in with the Qwen Code CLI, Propel will sync credentials
from `~/.qwen/oauth_creds.json` when it loads the auth store. You still need a
`models.providers.qwen-portal` entry (use the login command above to create one).

## Notes

- Tokens auto-refresh; re-run the login command if refresh fails or access is revoked.
- Default base URL: `https://portal.qwen.ai/v1` (override with
  `models.providers.qwen-portal.baseUrl` if Qwen provides a different endpoint).
- See [Model providers](/concepts/model-providers) for provider-wide rules.
