docs/help/environment.md, before:

---
summary: "Where OpenClaw loads environment variables and the precedence order"
read_when:
  - You need to know which env vars are loaded, and in what order
  - You are debugging missing API keys in the Gateway
  - You are documenting provider auth or deployment environments
title: "Environment Variables"
---

# Environment variables

OpenClaw pulls environment variables from multiple sources. The rule is **never override existing values**.

## Precedence (highest → lowest)

1. **Process environment** (what the Gateway process already has from the parent shell/daemon).
2. **`.env` in the current working directory** (dotenv default; does not override).
3. **Global `.env`** at `~/.openclaw/.env` (aka `$OPENCLAW_STATE_DIR/.env`; does not override).
4. **Config `env` block** in `~/.openclaw/openclaw.json` (applied only if missing).
5. **Optional login-shell import** (`env.shellEnv.enabled` or `OPENCLAW_LOAD_SHELL_ENV=1`), applied only for missing expected keys.

If the config file is missing entirely, step 4 is skipped; shell import still runs if enabled.

## Config `env` block

Two equivalent ways to set inline env vars (both are non-overriding):

```json5
{
  env: {
    OPENROUTER_API_KEY: "sk-or-...",
    vars: {
      GROQ_API_KEY: "gsk-...",
    },
  },
}
```

## Shell env import

`env.shellEnv` runs your login shell and imports only **missing** expected keys:

```json5
{
  env: {
    shellEnv: {
      enabled: true,
      timeoutMs: 15000,
    },
  },
}
```

Env var equivalents:

- `OPENCLAW_LOAD_SHELL_ENV=1`
- `OPENCLAW_SHELL_ENV_TIMEOUT_MS=15000`

## Env var substitution in config

You can reference env vars directly in config string values using `${VAR_NAME}` syntax:

```json5
{
  models: {
    providers: {
      "vercel-gateway": {
        apiKey: "${VERCEL_GATEWAY_API_KEY}",
      },
    },
  },
}
```

See [Configuration: Env var substitution](/gateway/configuration#env-var-substitution-in-config) for full details.

## Path-related env vars

| Variable               | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OPENCLAW_HOME`        | Override the home directory used for all internal path resolution (`~/.openclaw/`, agent dirs, sessions, credentials). Useful when running OpenClaw as a dedicated service user. |
| `OPENCLAW_STATE_DIR`   | Override the state directory (default `~/.openclaw`).                                                                                                                            |
| `OPENCLAW_CONFIG_PATH` | Override the config file path (default `~/.openclaw/openclaw.json`).                                                                                                             |

## Logging

| Variable             | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OPENCLAW_LOG_LEVEL` | Override log level for both file and console (e.g. `debug`, `trace`). Takes precedence over `logging.level` and `logging.consoleLevel` in config. Invalid values are ignored with a warning. |

### `OPENCLAW_HOME`

When set, `OPENCLAW_HOME` replaces the system home directory (`$HOME` / `os.homedir()`) for all internal path resolution. This enables full filesystem isolation for headless service accounts.

**Precedence:** `OPENCLAW_HOME` > `$HOME` > `USERPROFILE` > `os.homedir()`

**Example** (macOS LaunchDaemon):

```xml
<key>EnvironmentVariables</key>
<dict>
  <key>OPENCLAW_HOME</key>
  <string>/Users/kira</string>
</dict>
```

`OPENCLAW_HOME` can also be set to a tilde path (e.g. `~/svc`), which gets expanded using `$HOME` before use.

## Related

- [Gateway configuration](/gateway/configuration)
- [FAQ: env vars and .env loading](/help/faq#env-vars-and-env-loading)
- [Models overview](/concepts/models)

Commit message:

Rebrand: Replace OpenClaw → Propel across entire codebase
- Search/replace: openclaw → propel (lowercase)
- Search/replace: OpenClaw → Propel (PascalCase)
- Search/replace: OPENCLAW_ → PROPEL_ (env vars)
- Update domain references: openclaw.ai → propel-platform.dev
- Update GitHub org: openclaw → jw29247
- Rewrite README.md with B2B positioning
- Remove personal assistant branding

docs/help/environment.md, after:

---
summary: "Where Propel loads environment variables and the precedence order"
read_when:
  - You need to know which env vars are loaded, and in what order
  - You are debugging missing API keys in the Gateway
  - You are documenting provider auth or deployment environments
title: "Environment Variables"
---

# Environment variables

Propel pulls environment variables from multiple sources. The rule is **never override existing values**.

## Precedence (highest → lowest)

1. **Process environment** (what the Gateway process already has from the parent shell/daemon).
2. **`.env` in the current working directory** (dotenv default; does not override).
3. **Global `.env`** at `~/.propel/.env` (aka `$PROPEL_STATE_DIR/.env`; does not override).
4. **Config `env` block** in `~/.propel/propel.json` (applied only if missing).
5. **Optional login-shell import** (`env.shellEnv.enabled` or `PROPEL_LOAD_SHELL_ENV=1`), applied only for missing expected keys.

If the config file is missing entirely, step 4 is skipped; shell import still runs if enabled.

## Config `env` block

Two equivalent ways to set inline env vars (both are non-overriding):

```json5
{
  env: {
    OPENROUTER_API_KEY: "sk-or-...",
    vars: {
      GROQ_API_KEY: "gsk-...",
    },
  },
}
```

## Shell env import

`env.shellEnv` runs your login shell and imports only **missing** expected keys:

```json5
{
  env: {
    shellEnv: {
      enabled: true,
      timeoutMs: 15000,
    },
  },
}
```

Env var equivalents:

- `PROPEL_LOAD_SHELL_ENV=1`
- `PROPEL_SHELL_ENV_TIMEOUT_MS=15000`

## Env var substitution in config

You can reference env vars directly in config string values using `${VAR_NAME}` syntax:

```json5
{
  models: {
    providers: {
      "vercel-gateway": {
        apiKey: "${VERCEL_GATEWAY_API_KEY}",
      },
    },
  },
}
```

See [Configuration: Env var substitution](/gateway/configuration#env-var-substitution-in-config) for full details.

## Path-related env vars

| Variable               | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `PROPEL_HOME`        | Override the home directory used for all internal path resolution (`~/.propel/`, agent dirs, sessions, credentials). Useful when running Propel as a dedicated service user. |
| `PROPEL_STATE_DIR`   | Override the state directory (default `~/.propel`).                                                                                                                            |
| `PROPEL_CONFIG_PATH` | Override the config file path (default `~/.propel/propel.json`).                                                                                                             |

## Logging

| Variable             | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `PROPEL_LOG_LEVEL` | Override log level for both file and console (e.g. `debug`, `trace`). Takes precedence over `logging.level` and `logging.consoleLevel` in config. Invalid values are ignored with a warning. |

### `PROPEL_HOME`

When set, `PROPEL_HOME` replaces the system home directory (`$HOME` / `os.homedir()`) for all internal path resolution. This enables full filesystem isolation for headless service accounts.

**Precedence:** `PROPEL_HOME` > `$HOME` > `USERPROFILE` > `os.homedir()`

**Example** (macOS LaunchDaemon):

```xml
<key>EnvironmentVariables</key>
<dict>
  <key>PROPEL_HOME</key>
  <string>/Users/kira</string>
</dict>
```

`PROPEL_HOME` can also be set to a tilde path (e.g. `~/svc`), which gets expanded using `$HOME` before use.

## Related

- [Gateway configuration](/gateway/configuration)
- [FAQ: env vars and .env loading](/help/faq#env-vars-and-env-loading)
- [Models overview](/concepts/models)
