docs/start/onboarding-overview.md, before:

---
summary: "Overview of OpenClaw onboarding options and flows"
read_when:
  - Choosing an onboarding path
  - Setting up a new environment
title: "Onboarding Overview"
sidebarTitle: "Onboarding Overview"
---

# Onboarding Overview

OpenClaw supports multiple onboarding paths depending on where the Gateway runs
and how you prefer to configure providers.

## Choose your onboarding path

- **CLI wizard** for macOS, Linux, and Windows (via WSL2).
- **macOS app** for a guided first run on Apple silicon or Intel Macs.

## CLI onboarding wizard

Run the wizard in a terminal:

```bash
openclaw onboard
```

Use the CLI wizard when you want full control of the Gateway, workspace,
channels, and skills. Docs:

- [Onboarding Wizard (CLI)](/start/wizard)
- [`openclaw onboard` command](/cli/onboard)

## macOS app onboarding

Use the OpenClaw app when you want a fully guided setup on macOS. Docs:

- [Onboarding (macOS App)](/start/onboarding)

## Custom Provider

If you need an endpoint that is not listed, including hosted providers that
expose standard OpenAI or Anthropic APIs, choose **Custom Provider** in the
CLI wizard. You will be asked to:

- Pick OpenAI-compatible, Anthropic-compatible, or **Unknown** (auto-detect).
- Enter a base URL and API key (if required by the provider).
- Provide a model ID and optional alias.
- Choose an Endpoint ID so multiple custom endpoints can coexist.

For detailed steps, follow the CLI onboarding docs above.

Commit message:

Rebrand: Replace OpenClaw → Propel across entire codebase
- Search/replace: openclaw → propel (lowercase)
- Search/replace: OpenClaw → Propel (PascalCase)
- Search/replace: OPENCLAW_ → PROPEL_ (env vars)
- Update domain references: openclaw.ai → propel-platform.dev
- Update GitHub org: openclaw → jw29247
- Rewrite README.md with B2B positioning
- Remove personal assistant branding

docs/start/onboarding-overview.md, after:

---
summary: "Overview of Propel onboarding options and flows"
read_when:
  - Choosing an onboarding path
  - Setting up a new environment
title: "Onboarding Overview"
sidebarTitle: "Onboarding Overview"
---

# Onboarding Overview

Propel supports multiple onboarding paths depending on where the Gateway runs
and how you prefer to configure providers.

## Choose your onboarding path

- **CLI wizard** for macOS, Linux, and Windows (via WSL2).
- **macOS app** for a guided first run on Apple silicon or Intel Macs.

## CLI onboarding wizard

Run the wizard in a terminal:

```bash
propel onboard
```

Use the CLI wizard when you want full control of the Gateway, workspace,
channels, and skills. Docs:

- [Onboarding Wizard (CLI)](/start/wizard)
- [`propel onboard` command](/cli/onboard)

## macOS app onboarding

Use the Propel app when you want a fully guided setup on macOS. Docs:

- [Onboarding (macOS App)](/start/onboarding)

## Custom Provider

If you need an endpoint that is not listed, including hosted providers that
expose standard OpenAI or Anthropic APIs, choose **Custom Provider** in the
CLI wizard. You will be asked to:

- Pick OpenAI-compatible, Anthropic-compatible, or **Unknown** (auto-detect).
- Enter a base URL and API key (if required by the provider).
- Provide a model ID and optional alias.
- Choose an Endpoint ID so multiple custom endpoints can coexist.

For detailed steps, follow the CLI onboarding docs above.
