docs/pi-dev.md, before:

---
title: "Pi Development Workflow"
summary: "Developer workflow for Pi integration: build, test, and live validation"
read_when:
  - Working on Pi integration code or tests
  - Running Pi-specific lint, typecheck, and live test flows
---

# Pi Development Workflow

This guide summarizes a sane workflow for working on the pi integration in OpenClaw.

## Type Checking and Linting

- Type check and build: `pnpm build`
- Lint: `pnpm lint`
- Format check: `pnpm format`
- Full gate before pushing: `pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test`

## Running Pi Tests

Run the Pi-focused test set directly with Vitest:

```bash
pnpm test -- \
  "src/agents/pi-*.test.ts" \
  "src/agents/pi-embedded-*.test.ts" \
  "src/agents/pi-tools*.test.ts" \
  "src/agents/pi-settings.test.ts" \
  "src/agents/pi-tool-definition-adapter*.test.ts" \
  "src/agents/pi-extensions/**/*.test.ts"
```

To include the live provider exercise:

```bash
OPENCLAW_LIVE_TEST=1 pnpm test -- src/agents/pi-embedded-runner-extraparams.live.test.ts
```

This covers the main Pi unit suites:

- `src/agents/pi-*.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-embedded-*.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-tools*.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-settings.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-tool-definition-adapter.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-extensions/*.test.ts`

## Manual Testing

Recommended flow:

- Run the gateway in dev mode:
  - `pnpm gateway:dev`
- Trigger the agent directly:
  - `pnpm openclaw agent --message "Hello" --thinking low`
- Use the TUI for interactive debugging:
  - `pnpm tui`

For tool call behavior, prompt for a `read` or `exec` action so you can see tool streaming and payload handling.

## Clean Slate Reset

State lives under the OpenClaw state directory. Default is `~/.openclaw`. If `OPENCLAW_STATE_DIR` is set, use that directory instead.

To reset everything:

- `openclaw.json` for config
- `credentials/` for auth profiles and tokens
- `agents/<agentId>/sessions/` for agent session history
- `agents/<agentId>/sessions.json` for the session index
- `sessions/` if legacy paths exist
- `workspace/` if you want a blank workspace

If you only want to reset sessions, delete `agents/<agentId>/sessions/` and `agents/<agentId>/sessions.json` for that agent. Keep `credentials/` if you do not want to reauthenticate.

## References

- [https://docs.openclaw.ai/testing](https://docs.openclaw.ai/testing)
- [https://docs.openclaw.ai/start/getting-started](https://docs.openclaw.ai/start/getting-started)

Commit message:

Rebrand: Replace OpenClaw → Propel across entire codebase
- Search/replace: openclaw → propel (lowercase)
- Search/replace: OpenClaw → Propel (PascalCase)
- Search/replace: OPENCLAW_ → PROPEL_ (env vars)
- Update domain references: openclaw.ai → propel-platform.dev
- Update GitHub org: openclaw → jw29247
- Rewrite README.md with B2B positioning
- Remove personal assistant branding

docs/pi-dev.md, after:

---
title: "Pi Development Workflow"
summary: "Developer workflow for Pi integration: build, test, and live validation"
read_when:
  - Working on Pi integration code or tests
  - Running Pi-specific lint, typecheck, and live test flows
---

# Pi Development Workflow

This guide summarizes a sane workflow for working on the pi integration in Propel.

## Type Checking and Linting

- Type check and build: `pnpm build`
- Lint: `pnpm lint`
- Format check: `pnpm format`
- Full gate before pushing: `pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test`

## Running Pi Tests

Run the Pi-focused test set directly with Vitest:

```bash
pnpm test -- \
  "src/agents/pi-*.test.ts" \
  "src/agents/pi-embedded-*.test.ts" \
  "src/agents/pi-tools*.test.ts" \
  "src/agents/pi-settings.test.ts" \
  "src/agents/pi-tool-definition-adapter*.test.ts" \
  "src/agents/pi-extensions/**/*.test.ts"
```

To include the live provider exercise:

```bash
PROPEL_LIVE_TEST=1 pnpm test -- src/agents/pi-embedded-runner-extraparams.live.test.ts
```

This covers the main Pi unit suites:

- `src/agents/pi-*.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-embedded-*.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-tools*.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-settings.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-tool-definition-adapter.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-extensions/*.test.ts`

## Manual Testing

Recommended flow:

- Run the gateway in dev mode:
  - `pnpm gateway:dev`
- Trigger the agent directly:
  - `pnpm propel agent --message "Hello" --thinking low`
- Use the TUI for interactive debugging:
  - `pnpm tui`

For tool call behavior, prompt for a `read` or `exec` action so you can see tool streaming and payload handling.

## Clean Slate Reset

State lives under the Propel state directory. Default is `~/.propel`. If `PROPEL_STATE_DIR` is set, use that directory instead.

To reset everything:

- `propel.json` for config
- `credentials/` for auth profiles and tokens
- `agents/<agentId>/sessions/` for agent session history
- `agents/<agentId>/sessions.json` for the session index
- `sessions/` if legacy paths exist
- `workspace/` if you want a blank workspace

If you only want to reset sessions, delete `agents/<agentId>/sessions/` and `agents/<agentId>/sessions.json` for that agent. Keep `credentials/` if you do not want to reauthenticate.

## References

- [https://docs.propel.ai/testing](https://docs.propel.ai/testing)
- [https://docs.propel.ai/start/getting-started](https://docs.propel.ai/start/getting-started)
